src/snippets/oauth2-code-flow.mdx, before:

If you are registering a new application, please save the initial configuration first.

After saving, you can configure the OAuth2 Code Flow for this application by following the three steps:

1. Enable OAuth2 Code Flow.
   ![OAuth2 client secret](./images/oauth2-enable.png)
2. Copy the generated client secret. _Note that this is the only time you will be shown the actual value of the client secret. Criipto only stores this as a hashed value, which means you cannot retrieve the value once it has been generated and stored._
   ![OAuth2 client secret](./images/oauth2-client-secret.png)
3. Set the user info response strategy to `plainJson` to enable retrieval of plain JSON user information from the `/oauth2/userinfo` endpoint.
   ![OAuth2 code flow](./images/oauth2-code-flow.png)
   _Note that some libraries do not support the final `userinfo` request. In those cases, you will need to fetch the user data directly from the `token` endpoint as opposed to the `userinfo` endpoint._

<br />

<Highlight icon="file-lines">

Criipto Verify supports three modes for retrieving user information:

- Plain JSON object (`plainJson`): The user information is fetched as a standard JSON object from the `userinfo` endpoint.
- Signed JWT (`signedJwt`): The user information is fetched as a digitally signed JSON Web Token from the `userinfo` endpoint.
- Directly from the `token` endpoint, embedded in the `id_token` (`fromTokenEndpoint`). _The `fromTokenEndpoint` flow is not standard, but can be useful if you are working with a product that does not call the `userinfo` endpoint._

</Highlight>

Commit message:

fixup! Update OAuth2 Code Flow section

src/snippets/oauth2-code-flow.mdx, after:

If you are registering a new application, please save the initial configuration first.

After saving, you can configure the OAuth2 Code Flow for this application by following the three steps:

1. Go to the **OpenID Connect** section of your Application settings and **Enable OAuth2 Code Flow**.
   ![OAuth2 client secret](./images/oauth2-enable.png)
2. Copy the generated client secret. _Note that this is the only time you will be shown the actual value of the client secret. Criipto only stores this as a hashed value, which means you cannot retrieve the value once it has been generated and stored._
   ![OAuth2 client secret](./images/oauth2-client-secret.png)
3. Set the user info response strategy to `plainJson` to enable retrieval of plain JSON user information from the `/oauth2/userinfo` endpoint.
   ![OAuth2 code flow](./images/plain-json.png)
   _Note that some libraries do not support the final `userinfo` request. In those cases, you will need to fetch the user data directly from the `token` endpoint as opposed to the `userinfo` endpoint._ You can do this by choosing `fromTokenEndpoint` as a `User info response strategy`. 
   ![User info response strategy](./images/userinfo-responsestrategy-fromtokenendpoint.png)

<br />

<Highlight icon="file-lines">

Criipto Verify supports four modes for retrieving user information:

- Plain JSON object (`plainJson`): User information is returned from the `userinfo` endpoint as a standard JSON object.
- Signed JWT (`signedJwt`): User information is returned from the `userinfo` endpoint as a digitally signed [JSON Web Token](/verify/getting-started/glossary/#jwt-json-web-token).
- Signed and encrypted JWT (`signedAndEncryptedJwt`): User information is returned from the `userinfo` endpoint as a signed and encrypted [JSON Web Encryption(JWE)](/verify/getting-started/glossary/#json-web-encryption-jwe) object.
- Directly from the `token` endpoint, embedded in the `id_token` (`fromTokenEndpoint`). _The `fromTokenEndpoint` flow is not standard, but can be useful if you are working with a product that does not call the `userinfo` endpoint._

</Highlight>
