src/pages/signatures/guides/norwegian-bankid.mdx, before:

---
product: signatures
category: Guides
sort: 20
title: Norwegian BankID QES
---

Stø, the company behind BankID requires that all merchants move to their new Signing API.
This is beneficial, in that future signatures with BankID will be at the highest European level, QES.

However, as signatures will then no longer be based on JWTs, it has a few breaking changes:

- A new `Signature` GraphQL subtype has been added, [`NorwegianBankIdSignature`](/signatures/graphql/schema/#NorwegianBankIdSignature) of which you can request `claims`.
- Evidence Validation must be done on either `ssn` or `uniqueuserid` to work.
- `ssn` scope must specifically be added to evidence provider settings if `nnin` is required.

QES is enabled for all test signatures, and available on an opt-in basis for production signatures.
To opt in to production add `nobankid_csc` to the `loginHint` of your [`criiptoVerify` evidence provider settings](/signatures/graphql/schema/#CriiptoVerifyProviderInput).

Please note: Norwegian BankID QES with [CSC](https://developer.bankid.no/bankid-esign-provider/apis/csc/CSC/) carries an increased eID cost per document.

Commit message:

mention version for nobankid qes opt-in

src/pages/signatures/guides/norwegian-bankid.mdx, after:

---
product: signatures
category: Guides
sort: 20
title: Norwegian BankID QES
---

Stø, the company behind BankID requires that all merchants move to their new Signing API.
This is beneficial, in that future signatures with BankID will be at the highest European level, QES.

However, as signatures will then no longer be based on JWTs, it has a few breaking changes:

- A new `Signature` GraphQL subtype has been added, [`NorwegianBankIdSignature`](/signatures/graphql/schema/#NorwegianBankIdSignature) of which you can request `claims`.
- Evidence Validation must be done on either `ssn` or `uniqueuserid` to work.
- `ssn` scope must specifically be added to evidence provider settings if `nnin` is required.

QES is enabled for all test signatures, and available on an opt-in basis for production signatures.

To opt in to production, adjust your [`criiptoVerify` evidence provider settings](/signatures/graphql/schema/#CriiptoVerifyProviderInput) settings so that:

- `loginHint` contains `nobankid_csc`
- `version` is `V2` or higher.

Please note: Norwegian BankID QES with [CSC](https://developer.bankid.no/bankid-esign-provider/apis/csc/CSC/) carries an increased eID cost per document.
