src/pages/verify/integrations/aspnet-core-v3.mdx, before:

---
product: verify
category: Integrations
sort: 0
title: ASP.NET Core 3.1
subtitle: Accept MitID, Swedish BankID, Norwegian BankID and other eID logins with ASP.NET Core 3.1 and Criipto Verify
---

This tutorial demonstrates how to add user login to the existing ASP.NET Core 3.x application. If you are migrating .NET Core v2.x application to .NET Core v3.1, skip to the [Migrate .NET Core v2.x sample to .NET Core v3.1](#migrate-aspnet-core-v2x-sample-to-v3x) section.

Four steps are required to complete your first test login:

1. [Register your application in Criipto Verify](#register-your-application-in-criipto-verify)
2. [Configure your OAuth2 flow](#configure-the-oauth2-code-flow)
3. [Configure your application to use Criipto Verify](#configure-your-application-to-use-criipto-verify)
4. [Trigger authentication in your application](#trigger-login-and-logout-in-your-application)

This explains how to set up your application and test with test users. To use real eIDs for login the setup is the same, but you must be [set up for Production](#setting-up-for-production)

And note that you need test eID users to see your code in action. How to get those is [described further down](#test-users).

You may get a completed and ready to run [sample from GitHub](https://github.com/criipto/dotnet-core-v3.x-sample) showing the below recipe in the simplest of ASP.NET Core MVC applications.

To modify your existing application to work with Criipto Verify follow the steps below.

## Register Your Application in Criipto Verify

After you signed up for Criipto Verify, you must register an application before you can actually try logging in with any eID.

Once you register your application you will also need some of the information for communicating with Criipto Verify. You get these details from the settings of the application in the dashboard.

Specifically you need the following information to configure you application

- _Client ID_ to identify you application to Criipto Verify. In the case below we chose `urn:criipto:samples:no1`
- _Domain_ on which you will be communicating with Criipto Verify. Could be for example `samples.criipto.id`

![Register App](/images/register-app.png)

### Register callback URLs

Before you can start sending authentication requests to Criipto Verify you need to register the URLs on which you want to receive the returned *JSON Web Token*, JWT.

The Callback URL of your application is the URL where Criipto Verify will redirect to after the user has authenticated in order for the OpenID Connect ASP.NET middleware to complete the authentication process.

You will need to add these URLs to the list of allowed URLs for your application:

```shell
https://localhost:5001/callback
http://localhost:5000/callback
https://localhost:5001/signout
http://localhost:5000/signout
``` 

If you deploy your application to a different URL you will also need to ensure to add that URL to the Callback URLs. 


## Configure the OAuth2 code flow

import CodeFlowSnippet from '../../../snippets/oauth2-code-flow.mdx';

<CodeFlowSnippet />

## Install dependencies

To integrate Criipto Verify with ASP.NET Core you will use the Cookie and OpenID Connect (OIDC) authentication handlers. The seed project already references the ASP.NET Core meta package (Microsoft.AspNetCore.App) which includes all NuGet packages shipped by Microsoft as part of ASP.NET Core 3.1, including the packages for the Cookie and OIDC authentication handlers.

If you are adding this to your own existing project, and you have not referenced the meta package, then please make sure that you add the Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication.Cookies and Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication.OpenIdConnect packages to your application.

``` console
dotnet add package Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication.Cookies
dotnet add package Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication.OpenIdConnect
```

### Configure OpenID Connect Middleware

To enable authentication in your ASP.NET Core application, use the OpenID Connect (OIDC) middleware.
Go to the `ConfigureServices` method of your `Startup` class. To add the authentication services, call the `AddAuthentication` method. To enable cookie authentication, call the `AddCookie` method.

Next, configure the OIDC authentication handler. Add a call to `AddOpenIdConnect`. Configure the necessary parameters, such as `ClientId`, `ClientSecret`, `ResponseType`, and not least the `Authority`. The latter is used by the middleware to get the metadata describing the relevant endpoints, the signing keys etc.

The OIDC middleware requests both the `openid` and `profile` scopes by default, but note that Criipto Verify by nature returns only the information derived from the underlying eID service. Changing the scopes does not affect the amount and nature of information delivered from the user information endpoint.

```csharp
// Startup.cs

public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
{
    services.Configure<CookiePolicyOptions>(options =>
    {
        // This lambda determines whether user consent for non-essential cookies is needed for a given request.
        options.CheckConsentNeeded = context => true;
        options.MinimumSameSitePolicy = SameSiteMode.None;
    });

    services.AddAuthentication(options => {
        options.DefaultScheme = CookieAuthenticationDefaults.AuthenticationScheme;
        options.DefaultChallengeScheme = OpenIdConnectDefaults.AuthenticationScheme;
    })
    .AddCookie()
    .AddOpenIdConnect(options => {
        options.ClientId = Configuration["Criipto:ClientId"]; // ClientID from application registration
        options.ClientSecret = Configuration["Criipto:ClientSecret"]; // Client secret from oauth2 code flow
        options.Authority = $"https://{Configuration["Criipto:Domain"]}/"; // Domain from application registration
        options.ResponseType = "code";

        // The next to settings must match the Callback URLs in Criipto Verify
        options.CallbackPath = new PathString("/callback"); 
        options.SignedOutCallbackPath = new PathString("/signout");

        // Hook up an event handler to set the acr_value of the authorize request
        // In a real world implementation this is probably a bit more flexible
        options.Events = new OpenIdConnectEvents() {
            OnRedirectToIdentityProvider = context => {
                context.ProtocolMessage.AcrValues = context.Request.Query["loginmethod"];
                return Task.FromResult(0);
            }
        };
    });

    services.AddMvc();
}
```

_Note_ that the above code dynamically sets the `AcrValues` by picking it from the query string. In the general case, this may, of course, be set in other ways. Just note that it is dynamically set at the time of the actual login.

### Choosing the specific login method

import LoginMethodsSnippet from '../../../snippets/login-methods-and-path-encoded.mdx';

<LoginMethodsSnippet />

### Enable the OpenID Connect middleware

Next, add the authentication middleware. In the `Configure` method of the `Startup` class, call the `UseAuthentication` and `UseAuthorization` method. Make sure to call `UseAuthentication` method before `UseAuthorization` method, but both after `UseRouting` method.

```csharp
// Startup.cs

public void Configure(IApplicationBuilder app, IWebHostEnvironment env)
{
    if (env.IsDevelopment())
    {
        app.UseDeveloperExceptionPage();
    }
    else
    {
        app.UseExceptionHandler("/Home/Error");
        // The default HSTS value is 30 days. You may want to change this for production scenarios, see https://aka.ms/aspnetcore-hsts.
        app.UseHsts();
    }

    app.UseHttpsRedirection();
    app.UseStaticFiles();
    app.UseCookiePolicy();

    app.UseRouting();

    app.UseAuthentication();
    app.UseAuthorization();
    

    app.UseEndpoints(routes =>
    {
        routes.MapControllerRoute("default", "{controller=Home}/{action=Index}/{id?}");
    });
}
```

## Trigger Login and Logout in Your Application

After the middleware for performing the authentication is wired up, the next step is to perform the actual authentication.

### Protected resources trigger login

One way to trigger the authentication flow is to tag routes in ASP.NET MVC with the `Authorize`. This is a way of telling the framework to only allow requests from authenticated users.

```csharp
[Authorize] // If not already authenticated, this kicks off the process
public IActionResult Protected()
{
    return View();
}
```

Note that you may plug in your own Authorization handlers derived from `Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authorization.AuthorizationHandler<TRequirement>` to add additional guards beyond just authentication.

### Explicit logout

Logout requires both terminating the local session by removing the cookies as well as telling Criipto Verify that the session is over.

```csharp
public async Task Logout()
{
    // Call the server to terminate the session
    await HttpContext.SignOutAsync(OpenIdConnectDefaults.AuthenticationScheme);

    // Remove authnetication cookies
    await HttpContext.SignOutAsync(CookieAuthenticationDefaults.AuthenticationScheme);
}
``` 

### Test users

import TestUsersSnippet from '../../../snippets/test-users.mdx';

<TestUsersSnippet />

## The runtime flow

In summary, the steps above will lead to a runtime flow looks like this:

1. The web server starts the application which configures and initializes the OpenID Connect middleware. The middleware is configured with a URL from which it retrieves the metadata describing the various endpoints and encryption keys, such as the token and userinfo endpoints as well the token signing certificates
2. The user picks the login method, or the application is hardcoded to one of the [authentication options](#choosing-the-specific-login-method)
2. A request for a resource protected by the `[Authorization]` kicks off the OIDC middleware login flow
3. The user's browser is redirected to the Criipto Verify service where actual login happens
4. A callback with an issued _authorization code_ is sent back to the application and intercepted by the OIDC middleware
5. The middleware calls the Criipto Verify service to exchange the code for an _access token_. Note that this is a direct server to server call which - unlike the other communication - does not pass through the browser
6. The access token is used by the OIDC middleware to retrieve the available user information which is set as claims on the user principal.

If you want to inspect what is actually going on you may see much of it if you use for example chrome and turn on the developer tools to inspect the network traffic.

## Setting up for Production

import ProductionSnippet from '../../../snippets/set-up-production.mdx';

<ProductionSnippet />

## Migrate ASP.NET Core v2.x sample to v3.x

This section demonstrates how to migrate ASP.NET Core v2.x [sample from GitHub](https://github.com/criipto/aspnetcore-oidc-sample) to ASP.NET Core v3.1

Before proceeding, make sure you have the appropriate ASP.NET Core 3.1 SDK.

Following steps are required to complete your first test login:
1. [Modify aspnetcore-oidc project file](#modify-aspnetcore-oidc-project-file)
2. [Restore dependencies](#restore-dependencies)
2. [Modify Startup.cs file](#modify-startupcs-file)

### Modify aspnetcore-oidc project file

1. Change the `TargetFramework` from `netcoreapp2.2` to `netcoreapp3.1`.
2. Remove the following line from the `PropertyGroup`
  ``` xml
    <AspNetCoreHostingModel>InProcess</AspNetCoreHostingModel>
  ```

3. Remove following `PackageReference` entries from `ItemGroup`
  ``` xml
    <PackageReference Include="Microsoft.AspNetCore.App" />
    <PackageReference Include="Microsoft.AspNetCore.Razor.Design" Version="2.2.0" PrivateAssets="All" />
  ```

3. Add following `PackageReference` entries to the `ItemGroup`
  ``` xml
    <PackageReference Include="Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication.Cookies" Version="2.2.0" />
    <PackageReference Include="Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication.OpenIdConnect" Version="3.1.1" />
  ```

### Restore dependencies

Restore dependencies to make sure they are compatible with a new version of .NET Core.

Run the following command:

``` console
  dotnet restore
```

### Modify Startup.cs file

1. In the `ConfigureServices` method, remove the `SetCompatibilityVersion` method. Change the line 
  ``` cs
    services.AddMvc().SetCompatibilityVersion(CompatibilityVersion.Version_2_2);
  ```  
  into 
  ``` cs
    services.AddMvc();
  ```

2. In the `Configure` method, change the second argument's type from `IHostingEnvironment` to `IWebHostEnvironment`.
3. Add the following `using`
  ``` cs
    using Microsoft.Extensions.Hosting;
  ```
4. Add `app.UseRouting();` before `app.UseAuthentication();`.
5. Add `app.UseAuthorization();` after `app.UseAuthentication();`.
6. Replace the following code from the `Configure` method
  ``` cs
    app.UseMvc(routes =>
    {
        routes.MapRoute(
            name: "default",
            template: "{controller=Home}/{action=Index}/{id?}");
    });
  ```
  with
  ``` cs
    app.UseEndpoints(routes =>
    {
        routes.MapControllerRoute("default", "{controller=Home}/{action=Index}/{id?}");
    });
  ```

Commit message:

Update application creation screenshot
Updatied the application creation screenshot used in the ASP.NET Core 3.1 and Auth0 integration guides. Also including minor wording changes and internal links for better cross-referencing in these guides.

src/pages/verify/integrations/aspnet-core-v3.mdx, after:

---
product: verify
category: Integrations
sort: 0
title: ASP.NET Core 3.1
subtitle: Accept MitID, Swedish BankID, Norwegian BankID and other eID logins with ASP.NET Core 3.1 and Criipto Verify
---

This tutorial demonstrates how to add user login to the existing ASP.NET Core 3.x application. If you are migrating .NET Core v2.x application to .NET Core v3.1, skip to the [Migrate .NET Core v2.x sample to .NET Core v3.1](#migrate-aspnet-core-v2x-sample-to-v3x) section.

Four steps are required to complete your first test login:

1. [Register your application in Criipto Verify](#register-your-application-in-criipto-verify)
2. [Configure OAuth2 Code Flow](#configure-the-oauth2-code-flow)
3. [Configure your application to use Criipto Verify](#configure-your-application-to-use-criipto-verify)
4. [Trigger authentication in your application](#trigger-login-and-logout-in-your-application)

This explains how to set up your application and test with test users. To use real eIDs for login the setup is the same, but you must be [set up for Production](#setting-up-for-production).

And note that you need test eID users to see your code in action. How to get those is [described further down](#test-users).

You may get a completed and ready to run [sample from GitHub](https://github.com/criipto/dotnet-core-v3.x-sample) showing the below recipe in the simplest of ASP.NET Core MVC applications.

To modify your existing application to work with Criipto Verify follow the steps below.

## Register Your Application in Criipto Verify

After you signed up for Criipto Verify, you must register an application before you can actually try logging in with any eID.

Once your application is registered, the dashboard will contain the necessary details to configure your application to communicate with Criipto Verify. You will need the following information from the **General** tab of your application settings:

- _Client ID_ to identify you application to Criipto Verify.
- _[Domain](/verify/getting-started/basics/#domains)_ on which you will be communicating with Criipto Verify.

### Register callback URLs

Before you can start sending authentication requests to Criipto Verify you need to register the URLs on which you want to receive the returned *JSON Web Token*, JWT.

The Callback URL of your application is the URL where Criipto Verify will redirect to after the user has authenticated in order for the OpenID Connect ASP.NET middleware to complete the authentication process.

You will need to add these URLs to the list of allowed URLs for your application:

```shell
https://localhost:5001/callback
http://localhost:5000/callback
https://localhost:5001/signout
http://localhost:5000/signout
``` 

If you deploy your application to a different URL, you will need to add that URL to the Callback URLs as well.
## Configure OAuth2 Code Flow

import CodeFlowSnippet from '../../../snippets/oauth2-code-flow.mdx';

<CodeFlowSnippet />

## Install dependencies

To integrate Criipto Verify with ASP.NET Core you will use the Cookie and OpenID Connect (OIDC) authentication handlers. The seed project already references the ASP.NET Core meta package (Microsoft.AspNetCore.App) which includes all NuGet packages shipped by Microsoft as part of ASP.NET Core 3.1, including the packages for the Cookie and OIDC authentication handlers.

If you are adding this to your own existing project, and you have not referenced the meta package, then please make sure that you add the Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication.Cookies and Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication.OpenIdConnect packages to your application.

```console
dotnet add package Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication.Cookies
dotnet add package Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication.OpenIdConnect
```

### Configure OpenID Connect Middleware

To enable authentication in your ASP.NET Core application, use the OpenID Connect (OIDC) middleware.
Go to the `ConfigureServices` method of your `Startup` class. To add the authentication services, call the `AddAuthentication` method. To enable cookie authentication, call the `AddCookie` method.

Next, configure the OIDC authentication handler. Add a call to `AddOpenIdConnect`. Configure the necessary parameters, such as `ClientId`, `ClientSecret`, `ResponseType`, and not least the `Authority`. The latter is used by the middleware to get the metadata describing the relevant endpoints, the signing keys etc.

The OIDC middleware requests both the `openid` and `profile` scopes by default, but note that Criipto Verify by nature returns only the information derived from the underlying eID service. Changing the scopes does not affect the amount and nature of information delivered from the user information endpoint.

```csharp
// Startup.cs

public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
{
    services.Configure<CookiePolicyOptions>(options =>
    {
        // This lambda determines whether user consent for non-essential cookies is needed for a given request.
        options.CheckConsentNeeded = context => true;
        options.MinimumSameSitePolicy = SameSiteMode.None;
    });

    services.AddAuthentication(options => {
        options.DefaultScheme = CookieAuthenticationDefaults.AuthenticationScheme;
        options.DefaultChallengeScheme = OpenIdConnectDefaults.AuthenticationScheme;
    })
    .AddCookie()
    .AddOpenIdConnect(options => {
        options.ClientId = Configuration["Criipto:ClientId"]; // ClientID from application registration
        options.ClientSecret = Configuration["Criipto:ClientSecret"]; // Client secret from oauth2 code flow
        options.Authority = $"https://{Configuration["Criipto:Domain"]}/"; // Domain from application registration
        options.ResponseType = "code";

        // The next to settings must match the Callback URLs in Criipto Verify
        options.CallbackPath = new PathString("/callback");
        options.SignedOutCallbackPath = new PathString("/signout");

        // Hook up an event handler to set the acr_value of the authorize request
        // In a real world implementation this is probably a bit more flexible
        options.Events = new OpenIdConnectEvents() {
            OnRedirectToIdentityProvider = context => {
                context.ProtocolMessage.AcrValues = context.Request.Query["loginmethod"];
                return Task.FromResult(0);
            }
        };
    });

    services.AddMvc();
}
```

_Note_ that the above code dynamically sets the `AcrValues` by picking it from the query string. In the general case, this may, of course, be set in other ways. Just note that it is dynamically set at the time of the actual login.

### Choosing the specific login method

import LoginMethodsSnippet from '../../../snippets/login-methods-and-path-encoded.mdx';

<LoginMethodsSnippet />

### Enable the OpenID Connect middleware

Next, add the authentication middleware. In the `Configure` method of the `Startup` class, call the `UseAuthentication` and `UseAuthorization` method. Make sure to call `UseAuthentication` method before `UseAuthorization` method, but both after `UseRouting` method.

```csharp
// Startup.cs

public void Configure(IApplicationBuilder app, IWebHostEnvironment env)
{
    if (env.IsDevelopment())
    {
        app.UseDeveloperExceptionPage();
    }
    else
    {
        app.UseExceptionHandler("/Home/Error");
        // The default HSTS value is 30 days. You may want to change this for production scenarios, see https://aka.ms/aspnetcore-hsts.
        app.UseHsts();
    }

    app.UseHttpsRedirection();
    app.UseStaticFiles();
    app.UseCookiePolicy();

    app.UseRouting();

    app.UseAuthentication();
    app.UseAuthorization();


    app.UseEndpoints(routes =>
    {
        routes.MapControllerRoute("default", "{controller=Home}/{action=Index}/{id?}");
    });
}
```

## Trigger Login and Logout in Your Application

After the middleware for performing the authentication is wired up, the next step is to perform the actual authentication.

### Protected resources trigger login

One way to trigger the authentication flow is to tag routes in ASP.NET MVC with the `Authorize`. This is a way of telling the framework to only allow requests from authenticated users.

```csharp
[Authorize] // If not already authenticated, this kicks off the process
public IActionResult Protected()
{
    return View();
}
```

Note that you may plug in your own Authorization handlers derived from `Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authorization.AuthorizationHandler<TRequirement>` to add additional guards beyond just authentication.

### Explicit logout

Logout requires both terminating the local session by removing the cookies as well as telling Criipto Verify that the session is over.

```csharp
public async Task Logout()
{
    // Call the server to terminate the session
    await HttpContext.SignOutAsync(OpenIdConnectDefaults.AuthenticationScheme);

    // Remove authnetication cookies
    await HttpContext.SignOutAsync(CookieAuthenticationDefaults.AuthenticationScheme);
}
``` 

### Test users

import TestUsersSnippet from '../../../snippets/test-users.mdx';

<TestUsersSnippet />

## The runtime flow

In summary, the steps above will lead to a runtime flow that looks like this:

1. The web server starts the application, which configures and initializes the OpenID Connect middleware. The middleware is configured with a URL from which it retrieves the metadata describing the various endpoints (e.g., `token` and `userinfo`) and encryption keys, as well as the token signing certificates.
2. The user picks the login method, or the application is hardcoded to use one of the [authentication options](#choosing-the-specific-login-method).
3. A request for a resource protected by the `[Authorization]` kicks off the OIDC middleware login flow.
4. The user's browser is redirected to the Criipto Verify service, where the actual login takes place.
5. A callback with an issued _authorization code_ is sent back to the application and intercepted by the OIDC middleware.
6. The middleware calls the Criipto Verify service to exchange the code for an _access token_. Note that this is a direct server-to-server call which, unlike the other communication, does not pass through the browser.
7. The access token is used by the OIDC middleware to retrieve the available user information, which is set as claims on the user principal.

If you want to inspect the runtime flow, the browser's developer tools (e.g., in Chrome) can be used to examine the network traffic.

## Setting up for Production

import ProductionSnippet from '../../../snippets/set-up-production.mdx';

<ProductionSnippet />

## Migrate ASP.NET Core v2.x sample to v3.x

This section demonstrates how to migrate ASP.NET Core v2.x [sample from GitHub](https://github.com/criipto/aspnetcore-oidc-sample) to ASP.NET Core v3.1

Before proceeding, make sure you have the appropriate ASP.NET Core 3.1 SDK.

The following steps are required to complete your first test login:
1. [Modify aspnetcore-oidc project file](#modify-aspnetcore-oidc-project-file)
2. [Restore dependencies](#restore-dependencies)
3. [Modify Startup.cs file](#modify-startupcs-file)

### Modify aspnetcore-oidc project file

1. Change the `TargetFramework` from `netcoreapp2.2` to `netcoreapp3.1`.
2. Remove the following line from the `PropertyGroup`
  ``` xml
    <AspNetCoreHostingModel>InProcess</AspNetCoreHostingModel>
  ```

3. Remove following `PackageReference` entries from `ItemGroup`
  ``` xml
    <PackageReference Include="Microsoft.AspNetCore.App" />
    <PackageReference Include="Microsoft.AspNetCore.Razor.Design" Version="2.2.0" PrivateAssets="All" />
  ```

3. Add following `PackageReference` entries to the `ItemGroup`
  ``` xml
    <PackageReference Include="Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication.Cookies" Version="2.2.0" />
    <PackageReference Include="Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication.OpenIdConnect" Version="3.1.1" />
  ```

### Restore dependencies

Restore dependencies to make sure they are compatible with a new version of .NET Core.

Run the following command:

```console
  dotnet restore
```

### Modify Startup.cs file

1. In the `ConfigureServices` method, remove the `SetCompatibilityVersion` method. Change the line 
  ``` cs
    services.AddMvc().SetCompatibilityVersion(CompatibilityVersion.Version_2_2);
  ```  
  into 
  ``` cs
    services.AddMvc();
  ```

2. In the `Configure` method, change the second argument's type from `IHostingEnvironment` to `IWebHostEnvironment`.
3. Add the following `using`
  ``` cs
    using Microsoft.Extensions.Hosting;
  ```
4. Add `app.UseRouting();` before `app.UseAuthentication();`.
5. Add `app.UseAuthorization();` after `app.UseAuthentication();`.
6. Replace the following code from the `Configure` method
  ``` cs
    app.UseMvc(routes =>
    {
        routes.MapRoute(
            name: "default",
            template: "{controller=Home}/{action=Index}/{id?}");
    });
  ```
  with
  ``` cs
    app.UseEndpoints(routes =>
    {
        routes.MapControllerRoute("default", "{controller=Home}/{action=Index}/{id?}");
    });
  ```
